README.md, before:

# fzfmenu

fzfmenu is a task runner inspired by [using_fzf_as_a_dmenurofi_replacement](https://www.reddit.com/r/commandline/comments/jatyek/using_fzf_as_a_dmenurofi_replacement/). It harnesses the power of fzf’s fuzzy search to offer a unified tool. It's written in rust and pluggable. 

![](/assets/fzfmenu.png)

## Usage

Directly in your current terminal:

```shell
fzfmenu
```

In a new terminal instance (using foot):

```shell
foot -e fzfmenu
```


## Dependencies

- **fzf**

## Build

To build, make sure `cargo` is in your path.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/levinion/fzfmenu
cd fzfmenu
cargo install --path .
```

There's also an AUR package for ArchLinux users:

```
$AUR_HELPER -S fzfmenu
```

## Configuration

**⚠️ WARNING: NO BATTERY INCLUDED**

To keep dependencies minimal, `fzfmenu` does not ship with any default configurations or plugins. Therefore, it requires a custom setup before it can be used.

`fzfmenu` is configured using a toml file, typically located at ~/.config/fzfmenu/config.toml. This file defines needed settings and a list of plugins.

Here is a heavily commented example to help you get started:

```toml
[[plugins]]
# `name` (string):
# The name of the plugin, used for display in the fzfmenu interface.
# It should be a short, easily recognizable name, like "app_launcher".
name = "app_launcher"

# `description` (optional string):
# A brief description of the plugin, providing extra information about its purpose.
# This can be displayed as help text in the fzfmenu interface.
description = "Launch applications based on your desktop environment."

# `prefix` (string):
# The command prefix that triggers this plugin. Users type this prefix at the fzf prompt
# to activate the plugin.
# If the prefix is an empty string (""), this plugin is considered the default.
prefix = ""

# `picker` (string):
# The command executed when the plugin is activated to generate a list of candidates.
# Fzfmenu runs this command and uses its standard output as fzf's input.
# The `{}` is a placeholder that will be replaced by the remaining text the user typed
# at the fzf prompt.
# You could also get the input from `FZFMENU_INPUT` env.
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/app_launcher.py picker '{}'"

# `runner` (string):
# The command executed when a user selects an item from the list.
# Fzfmenu runs this command.
# The `{}` placeholder will be replaced by the result the user selected.
# You could also get the output from `FZFMENU_OUTPUT` env.
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/app_launcher.py runner '{}'"

# `dynamic` (optional bool, defaults to false)
# If set to true, the picker script is re-executed on every keystroke, allowing 
# for dynamic results. If false, the script runs only once when the plugin 
# is activated, and fzf filters the initial results locally.
dynamic = false


# `actions` (optional, defaults to `["hide-preview", "change-multi(0)"]`)
# List of fzf actions to execute immediately after a plugin reload.
# See the full list of available actions in the fzf manual:
# https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/blob/master/man/man1/fzf.1#L1834-L1976
actions = [
	"change-preview(echo {} | awk '{print $NF}' | xargs bat --color always)",
	"show-preview",
]

# more plugins

[[plugins]]
name = "killer"
description = "Find and terminate running processes."
prefix = "kl "
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/killer.py picker '{}'"
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/killer.py runner '{}'"


[[plugins]]
name = "jumper"
description = "Jump to any windows (only works on Ura WM)."
prefix = "wd "
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/jumper.py picker '{}'"
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/jumper.py runner '{}'"


[[plugins]]
name = "history"
description = "Search and reuse past shell commands."
prefix = "hs "
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/history.py picker '{}'"
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/history.py runner '{}'"
```

A simpler version of configuration file can be found in [examples/config.toml](examples/config.toml).

You can also find examples for plugins in the [examples/plugins](examples/plugins) directory.

Commit message:

refactor: change actions to 3 hooks

README.md, after:

# fzfmenu

fzfmenu is a task runner inspired by [using_fzf_as_a_dmenurofi_replacement](https://www.reddit.com/r/commandline/comments/jatyek/using_fzf_as_a_dmenurofi_replacement/). It harnesses the power of fzf’s fuzzy search to offer a unified tool. It's written in rust and pluggable. 

![](/assets/fzfmenu.png)

## Usage

Directly in your current terminal:

```shell
fzfmenu
```

In a new terminal instance (using foot):

```shell
foot -e fzfmenu
```


## Dependencies

- **fzf**

## Build

To build, make sure `cargo` is in your path.

```shell
git clone https://github.com/levinion/fzfmenu
cd fzfmenu
cargo install --path .
```

There's also an AUR package for ArchLinux users:

```
$AUR_HELPER -S fzfmenu
```

## Configuration

**⚠️ WARNING: NO BATTERY INCLUDED**

To keep dependencies minimal, `fzfmenu` does not ship with any default configurations or plugins. Therefore, it requires a custom setup before it can be used.

`fzfmenu` is configured using a toml file, typically located at ~/.config/fzfmenu/config.toml. This file defines needed settings and a list of plugins.

Here is a heavily commented example to help you get started:

```toml
[[plugins]]
# `name` (string):
# The name of the plugin, used for display in the fzfmenu interface.
# It should be a short, easily recognizable name, like "app_launcher".
name = "app_launcher"

# `description` (optional string):
# A brief description of the plugin, providing extra information about its purpose.
# This can be displayed as help text in the fzfmenu interface.
description = "Launch applications based on your desktop environment."

# `prefix` (string):
# The command prefix that triggers this plugin. Users type this prefix at the fzf prompt
# to activate the plugin.
# If the prefix is an empty string (""), this plugin is considered the default.
prefix = ""

# `picker` (string):
# The command executed when the plugin is activated to generate a list of candidates.
# Fzfmenu runs this command and uses its standard output as fzf's input.
# The `{}` is a placeholder that will be replaced by the remaining text the user typed
# at the fzf prompt.
# You could also get the input from `FZFMENU_INPUT` env.
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/app_launcher.py picker '{}'"

# `runner` (string):
# The command executed when a user selects an item from the list.
# Fzfmenu runs this command.
# The `{}` placeholder will be replaced by the result the user selected.
# You could also get the output from `FZFMENU_OUTPUT` env.
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/app_launcher.py runner '{}'"

# `dynamic` (optional bool, defaults to false)
# If set to true, the picker script is re-executed on every keystroke, allowing 
# for dynamic results. If false, the script runs only once when the plugin 
# is activated, and fzf filters the initial results locally.
dynamic = false


# `hooks` (optional)
# List of fzf actions to execute.
# There are three hooks:
#  - on_enter: Executed once when switching to the plugin.
#  - on_leave: Executed once when switching away.
#  - on_reload: Executed on every data refresh.
# See the full list of available actions in the fzf manual:
# https://github.com/junegunn/fzf/blob/master/man/man1/fzf.1#L1834-L1976
on_enter = [
	"change-preview(echo {} | awk '{print $NF}' | xargs bat --color always)",
	"show-preview",
]

on_leave = ["hide-preview"]

# more plugins

[[plugins]]
name = "killer"
description = "Find and terminate running processes."
prefix = "kl "
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/killer.py picker '{}'"
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/killer.py runner '{}'"


[[plugins]]
name = "jumper"
description = "Jump to any windows (only works on Ura WM)."
prefix = "wd "
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/jumper.py picker '{}'"
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/jumper.py runner '{}'"


[[plugins]]
name = "history"
description = "Search and reuse past shell commands."
prefix = "hs "
picker = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/history.py picker '{}'"
runner = "python ~/.config/fzfmenu/plugins/history.py runner '{}'"
```

A simpler version of configuration file can be found in [examples/config.toml](examples/config.toml).

You can also find examples for plugins in the [examples/plugins](examples/plugins) directory.
